# Static Site Generator
## Description
This is a python-based static site generator that uses Jinja2 and Markdown2 to generate static HTML pages from content written in Markdown. It generates a website with a home page, about page, contact page, and a news page that lists individual news pages.

The generated site is responsive and can be viewed on desktop and mobile devices.

- I primarily chose to code this project in Python because I'm more comfortable with the programming language. 

#### Backend Packages/Technologies
- Python 3
- jinja2
- markdown2
#### Frontend Packages/Technologies
- Sass
- Owl Carousel
- Magnific Pop-Up

## Installation instructions
- To use this static site generator, you'll need Python installed on your machine.

1. Clone this repository to your local machine using:
```
git clone https://github.com/Raykiai/static-site-gen
```
2. Navigate to the project directory using:
```
cd static-site-gen
```
3. Install the required packages by running
```
pip install jinja2 markdown2
```
## Usage
- Run the following command to generate the HTML pages: 
```
python main.py
```
This will generate the website and place the HTML files in the output directory.

## Understanding the code
The main.py script is the main program for the static site generator. It reads the Markdown files in the content and pages directory, converts them to HTML, and then applies the HTML to the Jinja2 templates in the templates directory. Finally, it outputs the resulting HTML files to the output directory.

## Folder Structure
**main.py** - main backend file for the static site generator. 

**Folders that contain the markdown files are:**
  1. pages folder
    - This folder contains the markdown files for the about page, the contact page, and the home page.
  2. content folder
    - This folder contains the markdown files for the articles which are displayed on the news page. 

 **templates folder** - This contains the HTML templates.
The news.html template is used for the news page, while snews.html is used for individual news pages. The index.html template is used for the home page, about.html for the about page, and contact.html for the contact page. 
  - The layout.html template is used for template code that needs to be repeated on every template. Jinja2 is used to implement template inheritance. 
 
 **output folder** - This folder contains:
 1. img folder - It contains the images which will be parsed to the html templates using the markdown files.
 2.  Static HTML files which are generated by the static site generator.
     - You can click the html files in this folder to view the generated web pages.

**assets folder** - This folder contains different folders that have files and images that are used to beautify the web pages, such as CSS and javascript files.

**env folder** - This folder contains the dependencies required for this project. This is where external packages are installed for use in the virtual environment.

## Limitations
This code is limited to generating static HTML files from Markdown files only. It does not include support for dynamic content or server-side scripting.

## References/Credits
1. Web template from https://themewagon.com/themes/free-html5-bootstrap-4-ecommerce-website-template-frutika/ 
2. Ashraf, N. (2019). Making a Static Site Generator with Python - part 2. Retrieved from https://blog.naveeraashraf.com/posts/make-static-site-generator-with-python-2/
3. Markdown syntax: https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/
4. Jinja2 documentation: https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/3.0.x/templates/
5. Python-Markdown documentation: https://python-markdown.github.io/




 
 
 

